# Synthetic_Data_Generator

The process of synthetic data generation starts from storing details of every page from the original dataset in the page details dictionary, details like the number of labels and their type. We also store the annotations of every label in the label annotation dictionary and coordinates of each label in the respective label coordinate dictionary. Then for each page, if the page has a Text with its width greater than 500, we randomly split the text into 3 parts of different sizes and update the bbx file. After that, we select a random page that has a text count less than 75%. Then we traverse each label stored in the page detail dictionary for that page. We have set a threshold to either replace the current label of the page or not, For “Image” it is set to be greater than 0.4, for “Table” greater than 0.35, for “Math” greater than 0.5, and for “Text” greater than 0.4. 

We have also set an inner threshold for images and text to replace Image with Image or Image with Table and Similarly Text with Text or Text with Math.

Then we execute the following steps :

1. If the current label is “Image” and if the randomly generated value is greater than 0.4 then we move forward to replace the image. We then generate a second random number    and if it is greater than 0.4, we randomly choose a table from the dataset, and if the selected table has the required dimensions, we replace the image of that current        page with the selected table. The replacing involves the four major steps – a.) Apply some Linear transformation to the image and update its coordinates accordingly. b.)      Resize the table to that of the updated image. c.) Replace the image with the table and d.) Update the labels of that page for that region. But if the randomly selected      table is not of the required dimension we only execute step a.

2. If the randomly generated second value is less than 0.4 then we randomly choose an image from the dataset and if the selected image has the required dimensions, then we      replace the image of that current page with the selected image. The replacing involves the four major steps – a.) Apply some Linear Transformations to the image and update    its coordinates accordingly. b.) Resize the image to that of the updated image. c.) Replace the image with the selected image and d.) Update the labels of that page for      that region. But if the randomly selected image is not of the required dimension we only execute step a.

3. If the current label is “Table” and if the randomly generated value is greater than 0.35 then we move forward to replace the Table. We randomly choose a table from the        dataset and if the randomly selected table has the required dimensions, then we replace the table of that current page with the selected table. The replacing involves the    four major steps – a.) Apply some Linear transformation to the Table and update its coordinates accordingly. b.) Resize the selected table to that of the updated table.      c.) Replace the table with the table and d.) Update the labels of that page for that region. But if the randomly selected table is not of the required dimension we only      execute step a.

4. If the current label is “Math” and if the randomly generated value is greater than 0.5 then we move forward to replace the Math. We randomly choose a Math from the dataset    and if the randomly selected Math has the required dimensions, then we replace the math of that current page with that selected math. But if the randomly selected math is    not of the required dimension we continue without replacing it.

5. If the current label is “Text” and if the randomly generated value is greater than 0.4 then we move forward to replace the Text. We then generate a second random number      and if it is greater than 0.4 we randomly choose a text from the dataset and if the randomly selected text has the required dimensions, then we replace the text of that      current page with the selected text. Here we do not apply Linear Transformation rest of the replacing process remains the same. But if the randomly selected text is not of    the required dimension we continue without replacing it.

6. If the randomly generated second value is less than 0.4 then we randomly choose math from the dataset and if the randomly selected math has the required dimensions, then      we replace the text of that current page with the selected math. Here we do not apply Linear Transformation rest of the replacing process remains the same. But if the        randomly selected math is not of the required dimension we continue without replacing it.

After traversing the page for each label on the page we store the newly generated page in the dataset and update the bbx file.

The Linear Transformation used in the code involves Translation, Stretching, Rotation, and Changing size.
